>> Scott Moss: So you're gonna create
input types for query arguments,
you're gonna add arguments for
your queries, and
you're gonna use arguments in your
query filled resolvers to filter data.
So let me go over that
with you right quick.
So if we go back to our schema.js.
Right now, you have a pets query, right?
Everyone should have that,
because we did that last exercise.
So you're gonna have to add a input for
the pets query that
allows someone to filter their pets by
the properties that exist on a pet,
which I would say for now,
let's just do a type.
Just stick with the type,
if you wanna add something fancy,
get fancy when it filtered it out but
a type is good for now.
And you also need to create
another query for just one pet.
So I should be able to have
a query that just gets one pet.
And maybe it should just
be either by an ID, or
maybe a name, I'll let you decide how you
wanna get one pet, but you need to make
a query that gets one pet and it takes an
input on how to fetch just that one pet.
So I'll let you do that, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Are there any rules like,
[COUGH] required if?
So say you had get pet by ID or by name,
but you gotta give me one of them.
>> Scott Moss: So, that's a good question.
So, if you have to give me either, or,
you won't be able to do that in the SDL,
the schema language, cuz you can only say,
either you always have to give me that,
or you always have to give me that, or
you always have to give me both, or
you don't have to give me both.
So, that type of dynamic check,
because this is not dynamic,
you wrote this as static,
you gotta do that in the resolver.
In the resolver, you have to check,
okay, because my schema,
it doesn't have a check on neither
of them, but I require one of them,
then therefore, you'd have to do
that check yourself in the resolver.
>> Speaker 2: Can you throw schema
level errors manually like that?
>> Scott Moss: We're gonna
get into the errors.
Yeah, we're gonna get to the errors but,
if you wanna try,
throw an error in the resolver and
tell me what happens.
Yup, just throw it, don't worry
about catching it, just throw it.
See what happens, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Is it considered bad
form to go back through the schema?
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Is it considered
bad form to reuse any input-
>> Scott Moss: No.
>> Speaker 2: For more than one query, so
using the same input for pets and pet.
>> Scott Moss: No, I think that's smart.
If it's the same one, then do it.
I don't think that's a bad thing,
bad idea.
I would say as long as they make sense,
like if this
pet input had some weird strange name
that only apply to this pets query and
it didn't apply to this one,
then maybe change the name or something.
But no, using the same one, no,
it's just as widely accepted as
using the same type in many places.
So I would say go for it if it works.
Cool, yes?
>> Speaker 2: If I want to query by
all fields of my type,that means
I need to duplicate in the input type?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, you have to
be extremely explicit about it.
You can't say-
>> Speaker 2: Why can't I reuse as a type,
as an input?
>> Scott Moss: You can reuse
the types as an input because GraphQL
treats types and
inputs differently on the AST level.
There's different operations they
perform on types than they do inputs and
mixing the two would complicate
the system for them.
So they specifically asked
you to make input types.
Now, if you're saying I just want to be
able to just to say, come down here and
just be like, give me all that pet.fields
and something like that, right?
Yeah, you can't do that because
they want you to be explicit.
The whole point of this schema is for
someone to come in and visually look at
it, and be like, okay, I know exactly
what this is, it's very explicit.
So they don't allow you to do that,
even if and when we get to it later,
we're gonna get into like, advanced
STO features where you can like, have
implementations and stuff like that, even
then you still have to repeat the fields.
There's just no way around,
at least on the schema level,
of easily not repeating those fields.
On the client level,
we have something called fragments
which allow us to avoid that.
And you could use fragments on
the Schema Definition Language but
it's a little different from the fragments
you would be using on the client side.
So if you wanna know more about it,
if that's like really a problem for you,
I will look into fragments but
it's not gonna solve all the problems.
Good question though.
Yeah, when I learn that, I was like, why?
I had a long conversation with the people
on Facebook about this, trust me.
Cool, any questions about that stuff?
Okay, so once you have that,
then like I said,
you need to make that pet query,
add some stuff here.
And they you need to, one,
use your inputs inside your resolver.
If you go to the resolvers,
there's going to be,
when you use the context of models,
for instance, ctx.models.pet.
So in this case,
it would be like a findMany.
You can just pass any filter object here
which are the properties that exist and
it'll filter it out for you.
So findOne does the same thing.
findOne takes an object of
fields you wanna filter out and
findMany does the same thing.
So that's done for you,
you don't have to worry about that,
works just like a regular database
REM with, so take note of that.
But yeah, you need to update
your pets query to do that and
you need to create a pet query that also
has an input type that does that, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Can a resolver
call another resolver?
>> Scott Moss: No.
>> Speaker 2: No, cuz, yeah,
promise same definition.
>> Scott Moss: I see what you're saying,
it's just the same thing but
different method.
You have no control in what are these
resolvers are called, the client does,
that's the whole point.
So the only way that you can call
another resolver is if you created
a function that did this and call them
in both places, I would imagine, but
you can't because the job of the resolvers
is to resolve just one field.
So, in that case, if you were calling
another function, that's not a resolver,
that's just something that
gets data from somewhere.
And that's a good practice.
We didn't talk about data sources and
things like that.
But Apollo has something built into it
called a data source which is meant for
fetching external APIs but you can use it
for just data in your server internally.
And then that can be responsible for
fetching and
caching data on an application level, and
then you can reuse that logic within
the resolvers, and that's the only way.
But yeah, resolver doesn't
know about another resolver.
They don't know what happened before and
they don't know what's gonna happen after,
and they can't talk to another one.
So yeah.